Add Android Microsurveys docs (#620)
mozilla/experimenter-docs: docs/workflow/implementing/messaging/mobile-microsurveys.md

---
id: mobile-microsurveys
title: Android Microsurveys

> slug: /messaging/mobile-microsurveys

Author: Sounds good to me!
I'll update it!

> slug: /messaging/mobile-microsurveys

Reviewer: +1 for reference this is how the "onboarding" feature is documented for Fenix & iOS

<img width="284" alt="Screenshot 2024-07-30 at 09 23 37" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/004c181f-cdbd-4620-8a0a-44aadbd97fbd">

> slug: /messaging/mobile-microsurveys

Reviewer 2: Oh I like this, maybe we can create Mobile Microsurveys folder and nest it like this?

> slug: /messaging/mobile-microsurveys

Author: Either approach for me is OK, the suggested here or [this one](https://github.com/mozilla/experimenter-docs/pull/620#issuecomment-2260950554). When you start with the iOS one, you will have a better feeling of what is common and what is not, feel free to go with the one that make more senses.

> sidebar_position: 8

Reviewer 2: why do we need to add this here? couldn't find anything in the docs about it, not sure if I'm missing it somewhere.
https://experimenter.info/contributing/#create-a-new-document

Author: I think is to indicate in which row (Position) your section will show up.
<img width="285" alt="Screenshot 2024-07-29 at 3 47 39 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/073c4dee-717c-4831-acc4-371973e524d8">

---
## Introduction
The microsurvey feature is an extension of the [messaging framework](/messaging/mobile-messaging), and adds new functionality to target small surveys directly in the app. It allows us to capture user’s sentiment on any specific app’s features.

It’s composed the of two main user interfaces:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## The prompt

> 

Author: Addressed!

> It is the first ui widget which users see, the prompt is an invitation to start the survey, it’s shown when all the triggers indicated are met, until the user decides to start the survey, choose to cancel or the maximum number of shows is met.

Reviewer: nit: ui -> UI

<img src="/img/mobile/microsurveys/prompt.png" alt="Prompt view" className="img-sm-center"/>
<br/>

1. This title of the prompt can be customized.
2. The button starts the survey and shows the survey sheet.
3. The cancel button, dismiss the survey, and it won't be shown anymore to users.

## The sheet

The survey sheet is shown after the user clicks “Continue” in the prompt, here the user will be able to fill the survey. It will be shown until the user clicks the “X” button (1) or drag down the sheet, which will make the prompt visible again.

<img src="/img/mobile/microsurveys/sheet.png" alt="Sheet view" className="img-sm-center"/>
<br/>

1. The close button which will hide the sheet and show the prompt.
2. The submit button which will send the survey result if at least one field is selected.
3. The question and options both can be customized.

## Survey JSON recipe

> Microsurveys are built on top of the already existing [messaging framework](/messaging/mobile-messaging), with a couple extra fields to control the survey, if you are not familiar please take a look at it first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsurveys are built on top of the already existing [messaging framework](/messaging/mobile-messaging), with an extra field called `microsurvey-config` to control the survey, if you are not familiar please take a look at it first.
```

## Customize the prompt

On the prompt, you can customize the title by using the same `title` field as normal message, for example:

> - Desired responses: the number of desired survey responses, e.g. 1000. This is determined by the survey owner.

Reviewer: should this line be here?

Author: Thanks, that was a left over!

```json
{
  "messages": {
    "feature-print-microsurvey": {
      "title": "microsurvey_prompt_printing_title"
    }
  }
}

```

> You can either provide a `string` containing text that you would like to show or a pre-landed string id, which is already localizable. The latter is the preferred way so the survey supports multiple languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either provide a `string` containing text that you would like to show or reference a string bundled with the app. The latter is the preferred method so the survey can support multiple languages.
```

## Customize the sheet

In the sheet we can control the question, answers and UTM parameters for the privacy policy link.

> For the question, just use the `text` field at the same level as the `title` one, similar to the latter where you can provide either a string or pre landed string id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the question, just use the `text` field at the same level as the `title` one, similar to the latter where you can provide either a string or a bundled string id.
```

```json
{
  "messages": {
    "feature-print-microsurvey": {
      "title": "microsurvey_prompt_printing_title",
      "text": "microsurvey_survey_printing_title"
    }
  }
}

```

> To customize answers and UTM parameters, we have to add the `microsurvey-config` field object. For the answers just a new field called `answers`, it’s an array so each item will represent a possible answer, and it can contain two properties `text`, a string or pre-landed string of the text for the question and `ordering` which indicate in which position the possible answer should show.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize answers and UTM parameters, we have to include the `microsurvey-config` field object. For the answers just include a field called `answers`, it’s an array so each item will represent a possible answer, and it should contain two properties `text`, a string or bundled string of the text for the question and `ordering` which indicate in which position the possible answer should show. If no value is provided the default value will be 0.
The answers are displayed top to bottom e.g. 0 will be the first/top item, 1 will be next and so on. **Always** set either **ALL** the provided answers ordering or **NONE**. If ALL answers are default (or manually set to 0), the the ordering used will be the same as defined in the array.
```

  "messages": {
    "feature-print-microsurvey": {
      "title": "microsurvey_prompt_printing_title",
      "microsurvey-config": {
        "utm-content": "homepage",
        "answers": [
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_1",
            "ordering": 0
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_2",
            "ordering": 1
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_3",
            "ordering": 2
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_4",
            "ordering": 3
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_5",
            "ordering": 4
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_6",
            "ordering": 5
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}

```

The icon can be added by using the field `icon` under `microsurvey-config`, you have to provide a valid icon resource id, a full list of possible icons can be found [here](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/mobile/android/android-components/components/ui/icons/src/main/res/drawable) and [here](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/mobile/android/fenix/app/src/main/res/drawable).

> Something to keep in, mind is Android usages a special type vector called [vector drawables](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/graphics/vector-drawable-resources), to visualize it you will need Android studio with Fenix source code, ideally if the icon hasn't been use before confirm with the Android team how it will look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Something to keep in, mind is Android usages a special type vector called [vector drawables](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/graphics/vector-drawable-resources), to visualize it you will need Android studio with Fenix source code, ideally if the icon hasn't been use before confirm with the Android team how it will look.
```

> For the UTM parameters, just add the `utm-content` field. It's the type string, so you just have to add a [query string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string) which will be appended to the url of the privacy notice.

Reviewer: should we have the UTM info above the icon info so it matches the data structure?

```json
{
  "messages": {
    "feature-homepage-microsurvey": {
      "experiment": "{experiment}",
      "title": "micro_survey_prompt_title",
      "text": "microsurvey_homepage_title",
      "surface": "microsurvey",
      "style": "MICRO_SURVEY",
      "trigger-if-all": [
        "SECOND_HOMEPAGE_VIEW"
      ],
      "microsurvey-config": {
        "utm-content": "homepage",
        "icon": "mozac_ic_home_24",
        "answers": [
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_1",
            "ordering": 0
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_2",
            "ordering": 1
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_3",
            "ordering": 2
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_4",
            "ordering": 3
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_5",
            "ordering": 4
          },
          {
            "text": "likert_scale_option_6",
            "ordering": 5
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Triggers

Before targeting any specific feature triggers must be added pre landed on the app or included as part of the JSON recipe.

> At the moment, there two triggers landed specifically to target features, there are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, there are two triggers landed specifically to target features, there are:
```
